Cool software. All right, good stuff. We're live. Well, not live. We're actually, we're being recorded. And I have the honor of talking to Mr. Sanjay Poonen. Is that the right pronunciation? Yes, Josh. Thank you. Great to be here. The COO of a little company in Silicon Valley called VMware. How are you? I'm great, Josh. It's a pleasure. I ask people who are some of the famous folks in the Spring community that I should get to know. And Josh Long can pop to the top of the list. And I said, I got to get to know this guy better. So I had one meeting with him, I don't know, a couple of weeks ago. It was great. And then he, at the end of the meeting said, hey, we should do a podcast together. And that's why we're here. Yeah, I appreciate it. I really do. I, well, first of all, I appreciate, you know, I appreciate VMware absorbing Pivotal because it's a nice place to land, you know. But broadly, I appreciate you being here as well. So I know you, since you're, you know, in the C-suite, I don't want to waste your time. Let's get right into this. I'm not wasting my time. It's a delight, let me just tell you. First off, as you all get to know me, I'm getting to know many of the folks from, from Pivotal, and of course parts of it, like the Spring community. You'll find me to be just down to earth, humble, and hungry. I hope that that's what you like. So you're not wasting my time. We have an hour together. For me, it's an opportunity to get to know what is top of mind to your community. You know, I think it's about 3 million people. You tell me it might be more. But if it's more than 3 million developers, we want to tell you that we care about you. We really want to learn what we can continue to do better. That is obviously the history of VMware and Spring from years ago, when Paul Moritz was here, and we certainly understand your passion for Java and much of what you're doing at the Spring conferences, Spring One and others are events that are very important to us and you'll see us continue. But over the course of this conversation with Josh, I'm hoping that I will be able to not just talk to Josh, but to all of you, some subset of the 3 million community and tell you that we really want to help whatever you are doing, even take it to the next level. In other words, throw more fuel behind the fire, so to speak. Yeah, that's awesome. I appreciate that. So I guess the first question I would ask is, what's next? Like what's the big plan from VMware's perspective? Yeah, I think, listen, just to give a little bit of context before we break in, you should think about the core of VMware. You've noticed in the data center, probably a household name there, in terms of the virtualization platform, what we've done there. The goal has been really to extend that server virtualization to a full cloud foundation. In other words, virtualized servers, storage, networking, add a layer of management, and make that relevant to a multi-cloud world. That's the core foundation. It's a bulk of our revenue, what we're known. But probably we would know a lot more in the private cloud world, in terms of on-premise data centers, on top of servers, storage on-prem. We're increasingly becoming relevant to the multi-cloud world as a bridge to that hybrid cloud. So the biggest players in the multi-cloud world have all embraced us, whether it's Amazon, whether it's Azure, whether it's Google, whether it's IBM, whether it's Oracle, it's Alibaba. Every one of the six in the analyst quadrant called the magic quadrant, they've all embraced us. That's multi-cloud. But once you have that multi-cloud, by the way, multi-cloud is facilitated by some very game-changing technologies we're working on, like, you know, cloud-based networking, and so on. We can get into networking if you want to later on. But on top of that infrastructure, people build apps. And apps are the reason we exist, because we don't build those apps ourselves, but we facilitate people building those apps using a number of developer tools and languages. You know, I grew up in the era of the 1990s where, as a software engineer, that's my roots, as a computer science undergrad, it was C, C++, Java. That's what I did. So I'm not as familiar with some of the, and of course JavaScript, alphabet. I'm not as familiar with some of the later ones. I probably should learn Python and so on. But you know, from the standpoint of the developer mindset, I've always, because my roots was one as an engineer, you know, 20 plus years ago, I have a resonance with that community. And of course that, and those people are the heart and fabric of software companies like us, and many of the customers we actually work with, whether they're banks or telcos or healthcare, public sector, and so on. So what we wanna do is really provide a app modernization platform. And that's where Tanzu comes in. And that's the reason we acquired Pivotal and Heptio to create, and we branded everything something new because there was VMware, there was Heptio, well let's just come up with a new name. And Tanzu is that name, it's the Japanese word for containers. And you should see that as a concerted effort from VMware to appeal to the container community. Many of those folks are kind of, I would say fellow brothers and sisters of you, as you think about that community, and KubeCon, and Joe Beta and Craig McCluckie, the founders are now working for VMware. And where Springfixin is, listen, you guys have such a strong following, we wanna grow that community to the extent that there is opportunity to grow that and serve that community, because that represents one of the most vibrant and loyal communities around Java. I think sort of after Sun got acquired by Oracle, I don't know, I don't mean to throw Oracle under the bus, but I don't know how well that community was served by Oracle and since then. And I think we've become now one of those bastions of who can serve that community very well. I mean, since the days of BEA, WebLogic, and WebSphere, that's still a very relevant aspect of development stack, of course, and other ways in which it's being augmented. And what we've also started to do, Josh, is supplemented with some other developer communities like BigNami. That community is about two million, we think. So there's ways by which we're constantly asking ourselves, okay, what does a Spring community want, where they wanna go? And that's where we listen to people like you and all the people you talk to, Josh. And then, what's the BigNami community want? And how do we then intersect with other partner communities that we should also stay close to? That's awesome. First of all, I didn't know that Tanzu was, is that the Japanese word for containers? It's spelled a little bit different. I think it's spelled T-A-N-S-U, and Tanzu, and also, I think, a Tanzanian, or some African term for brand. So there's multiple terms, but Tanzu, if you go to Japan, it may be spelled T-A-N-S-U, but we like with a Z and we figured that's good. But it is, yeah, Tanzu is the Japanese word for containers. I'm gonna get sleep tonight for the first time, because I've been wondering what that was for so long. Yeah, that's where it came from. That is so cool. Wow, and so we have, by the way, you just mentioned a bunch of stuff. Also Wavefront, right? We've got Wavefront as well. We've added that now to the Tanzu portfolio, there's a build run, we could get into that as much as you want. We have a build, run, and manage. And part of that manage proposition is observability. So we moved Wavefront, wait, we took a bunch of assets out of VMware, like Heptio, and anything we were doing cloud native and put it into this division. Right. By a peer of mine named Ray O'Farrell. And some of the key leaders from Pivotal are continuing to do well, like Ian Andrews. Yeah, and Edward Hyatt and so on. So that, we're gonna, if anything, we just wanted to have one effort inside VMware, not two. So Ray's running that effort, he's wonderful. He has a care and a heart, and maybe the future podcast, if you haven't done that, Josh, you should get him also to talk to you and your community. He's got passion for that. He's an engineer like me at heart, and he was the CTO of VMware prior to this. So let me give a plug and a shout out for Ray, and you'll find, for any of you in the Spring community, you'll find a very strong supporter and advocate, if you would. And Ray, he's originally Irish, so if any of you are Irish, you can get along with him doubly as much. But I tell you, what we wanna really do is put that and create the best enterprise container platform. We've become one of the top two contributors to Kubernetes for certain people like you. Your friends Craig and Joe are doing a lot in that area. So for me, I think the mystery and intrigue is, we got this Spring community, three million plus. We got this Bitnami community, two million plus. And then we've got a massive effort we're doing with the Kubernetes community through Craig and Joe. Are these like three separate circles that are Venn diagrams, that don't intersect? And if they do intersect, what's the angles? We don't know. We're just kind of figuring this out together with all of you. And if you have ideas of what we should do to better appeal to this community, Because VMware's really, its strength through the years, was not a developer community. We sold infrastructure to people. And we do think there is a tremendous opportunity to be appealing in a humble way. We don't take anything for granted to the developer community as we become more and more relevant to them. Isn't it interesting that we are a software company selling infrastructure? That is to say, when I think of infrastructure, I've still had this 1990s definition of infrastructure, servers, things like that. But we're actually hardcore software engineers, really, really gifted, passionate software engineers that are writing software for infrastructure people. And now, with the new Tanzu portfolio, we're very much squarely in the center of the developers' stack, as well. It's interesting to me. Now, if you think of software typically as having two key attributes, it says applications and infrastructure, that's typically how it is. Apps are companies like SAP. I spend actual bulk of my world there. Those are packaged apps. Now, typically, a lot of companies also build custom apps. So those will be built with developer tools. And, of course, that's kind of significant, where how C++ and Java got developed, and JavaScript, and, of course, all of what's happening now in the internet and web 2.3.4.0 world. And then, of course, now then working and making it services-based, microservices-focused. All of those things now are very much common themes where developers and infrastructure topics are starting to intersect with each other. Absolutely. So you mentioned that you're a developer. I didn't wanna forget that. I was, gosh, let me warn you. I'm far from one right now. And I will, if you put me in front of a screen to code, I'll probably do more damage than needed to be. But I was one. And I was a computer science undergrad, computer science and electrical engineering. So I do have appreciation for many, many years I was coding. But I love that you're the, you're a chief operating officer of VMware, right? It's not a small company. I mean, I don't know how many people we have in the company, but it's more than one person. I'm not sure how many people- We're in a thousand plus employees now. Okay, that's more than one, right? That's a lot of people. And you're in the C-suite and yet you could still code. I just love that. So what is your, why are you here? How did you get here? I've been very fortunate. I came to this country just short as an immigrant and I wanted to study computer science. And I had a choice as an 18 year old in the late 1980s in India to go to one of two colleges. There's a big exam that many Indians do at the end of their high school years to apply to engineering schools. And I was fortunate to get into IIT, Indian Institute of Technology, it's sort of like the MIT of India, and it's a big competitive exam. I got in there, but at the same time, my uncle who had moved to the US in the 1960s, he and his wife suggested I apply to a few schools that offered scholarships to international students. It was rare at that time for Indians to come as undergrads. They usually came as graduate students on a scholarship or a master's degree. I applied to, I think, three or four schools. I applied to Caltech, I didn't get in, I applied to MIT, I didn't get in. And I got into this really nice school in New Hampshire, if any of you are in New Hampshire named Dartmouth. I knew nothing about Dartmouth. They actually was the first place for time sharing and basic was invented, but they had a really good computer science program. And I got a scholarship for 90%, the last 10% I had to work in the dining hall to supplement that. But I came here as an immigrant in the late 1980s, took a Greyhound bus up to Hanover, New Hampshire, 50 bucks in my pocket, and I started studying computer science. And I love computer science because there's, I had got very early in, I mean Dartmouth was one of the first schools to invest in Apple, Mac. I fell in love with Apple, in fact Apple was my first company, I came to work here in Silicon Valley at. I just love computer science because there was logic to it. I was very interested in algorithms, like how do you, I remember designing my first sort of, Scrabble game, which was kind of automated, having a computer science, and learn how to play Scrabble, ways by which you can design efficient optimization paths, all the kind of, algorithms were one of my favorite topics. I was very fortunate between my junior and senior year to spend a year, almost a year, nine months almost, working at Microsoft during the early years of Windows. And I got to do some very deep systems level, operating system kind of work there. And then I came to Apple and, build again, I was kind of a deeper systems guy. So I worked on the next gen operating system that Apple was working on, concept IBM, a division called Taligent. It didn't go very well, but I learned a lot. The company was a failure itself. Four years later, they sold the company. This was by the way, during the winter and the serious Steve Jobs, he wasn't there. And then I kind of left to go to business school. And then in the late 1990s, after I came from business school, I pivoted more of my career to product management and more, but I always had a residence. I still have some of my best meetings over the architects and engineers. And what I try to do because listen, I mean, now the technical stack, especially, I moved up the stack to analytics and apps and spent most of my life in that world, analytics and apps. And it didn't stay, I moved up from systems and now I'm VMware, kind of lower down the stack and the parts of the hardware and stack that I still don't know. And I just won't love hanging out with people are smarter than me, who knows something technically and ask them to explain it to me. I mean, to me, the reason I've been able to hopefully stay relevant is there are a couple of people in my friendship circle who are smarter than, I mean like one of them, Raghu at our company, if you don't know, he's one of the smartest guys in infrastructure. Rajiv is one of the smartest guys in our company networking. So if I have a question, I'll just say, listen would I mind, I mean, in these COVID days we'll do it over a zoom conference, but in the past we get in front of a white board and just learn from them. And I'd say the same way here. I think any of us who are kind of at technical roots and are much more mans with roles now, we have to stay relevant close to technology by learning, going deep, not just being superficial, empty suits. Now on the other hand, I've been very fortunate for about 30%, 70% of my life has been in engineering and product roles. About 30%, maybe 35% now has been a go to market role. So I've had the opportunity to lead large sales marketing teams. And that's a tremendous experience in itself, because that's all Rolodex building. It's closing a deal. It's appealing to a customer, making the message simple. I'm on CNBC a fair amount with Jim Kramer talking, I'm on Mad Money about the VMware store. You can't go there and start talking bits and bytes. You have to make the story simple. I like to say Sesame Street simple. So those are, it's a different skill. And I, to me, it's like, you're left-handed, right-handed, you have to be able to do both. You have to build some ambidexterity when you kind of do engineering and go to marketing. These are the two jets, typically of a company. I mean, you're building product and selling product. The more you can learn about how that art is perfected. I like one of these lines from Kobe Bryant, the late Kobe Bryant, who was, I loved him as an athlete. Like, he was always talking about his craft and perfecting a craft. And of course for many, you know, for several years, whatever, 20, 30, 20, 35 years, it was basketball. But then later on, it was moviemaking or being a better parent. All of these are crafts, and you want to perfect that craft as good as you can. And I think as you do that, you become a better human being too. Absolutely. You just mentioned a Jim Cramer. I, I can kind of play. I don't have nearly the same portfolio experience there, but when Pivotal IPO'd I was lucky enough to be on the New York Stock Exchange for the, for the bell ringing, right? And they have Squawk on the street, the Jim Cramer's TV show in the morning. And so me and a bunch of other, you know, very, very happy Pivotal TV bond or photo bond. Okay. Great. I hope you captured that on, on camera. Oh yeah. That is a celebrity moment. We are, you've got on. That's great. That's great. Glad you did it. I always see those people, like wonder who are those people? I'm glad you were one of them. I, this is the New York stock exchange. And so of course I bought a suit, but I also bought, I also brought my spring t-shirt. So I had a jacket and underneath the jacket was my spring t-shirt. And that's what I wore. I didn't wear a proper t-shirt, I got a proper shirt. I wore my spring t-shirt on TV on camera. So there's a picture of me, you know, just greeting ear to ear. Cause I'm so proud of the, of what has been accomplished here. You know. That's great. Congratulations, that was a good moment. And you want to be able to be up there and ring the bell once. So that's great. Glad you were able to do it. You know, I didn't do it. I'm just a clown, but I was very, it was a privilege to be there to celebrate that moment. So in a small way, I've been on TV with him too, but that's quite the same. Not quite as cool as what you do. He's a very humble man, and listen, it's all entertainment. He's, it's a, it's sort of education, but it's also entertaining. So a good part of what TV has to be, if it's going to get good ratings, is you have to have a combination of education. That's a good part of why people watch the show. He's one of the top rated news producers. He's been doing that for, I think, a couple of decades. So it's pretty remarkable. You know, it's like a songwriter. You got to constantly look at ways in which you stay relevant. Absolutely. So okay. So you go to market. That's actually, so that's what you're focusing on. Right now, that's my focus, except for one division that has engineering responsibilities and reports and security. So like 90, 95% of my focus is everything go to market of VMware. I think about 17,000 of the 30,000 people of VMware reported to me. So that's typically sales, marketing, consulting services, support, alliances, communications. In the case of security, because I was a sponsor of that case, I'm also shepherding that, you know, and from my perspective, I mean, the key is these org charts mean nothing. At the end of the day, you got to work collaboratively. So I love working with Ray, who has engineering responsibility for the business of Tanzu. Raghu, who I described, you know, real world-class. Knows the data center better than anybody. And Rajiv, who knows networking really very well. Shaker right now, another guy who knows the Telco edge area. These are wonderful talented people. And they really come, you know, come appreciate. And Pat, our CEO, he's a technical person too, right? I mean, you know, so T-level folks can be technical, and it's good to say that way. Quite frankly, I think the best C-level people. Recently, for example, IBM announced Arvind Krishna is their new CEO. He's a technologist. And I think it's a great day for IBM. It's a little bit almost kind of going back to the days of Watson. So I think when you have engineers and inventors and folks at the head of companies, I'm not dismissing pure salespeople. They're very valuable too. But I think at the core of it, a tech company is an engineering company. It's good to see tech people rise. Yeah. And your story by the way, is a very inspiring one. I love stories like that. I read somewhere and I go, I wish I could find the source and I wish I could verify it on the spot. But I read somewhere that something like, like eight out of 10 of the top biggest companies in Silicon Valley were founded by the first or second generation immigrants, right? Could well be. I don't know if that stat is exactly right, but I know a number of folks who are now founded, but also see, I mean, if you look at some of the big companies, Satya Nadella is an immigrant like me. He's CEO of the biggest market. At Microsoft. Sundar Pichai, CEO of Google. He's also an immigrant like me. Adobe. These three folks are my good friends. I know them. And as an Indian community, we try to stay close to each other so we can help each other. There are people who are even older than me who came probably 10, 15 years prior to me who paved the way. They know the coast was fantastic venture capitalists. Every time I meet them, I don't meet very often. I learned something from them. So there are folks who've gone ahead of us too, who paved the way. And listen, from my perspective, it's not about color of skin. It's the content of your character. It's the way you can add value. And if you were born here or not born here, the key is this is a wonderful country that has tremendous opportunity to work hard, and of course, yeah, smartness helps you. But I don't think there's any substitute for hard work. I see a lot of people who may not be the highest IQ in that class, but they worked really hard. And then maybe somewhere along the way, they got a break, right? Yeah. And that's also good. But they stay humble and hungry. To me, I think the humble and hungry part of it's actually the most intriguing because I think you look at some of these new leaders who are incredibly successful, Satya Nadella is a good, he's somebody who's a mentor. Very good example. I would say, the humble and hungry guy. I mean, just like that to me, his success has not made him change the course. I knew him from his SAP days. Sorry, from my SAP days where he was the executive sponsor for SAP and I was the executive sponsor for Microsoft. And we would talk a lot, cell phone to cell phone, and he's just as accessible, just humble now and he's enormously successful now. And it's a tribute to the way in which he has been able to turn around Microsoft. I think the same way. I think Andy Jassy is a friend of mine, he's the CEO of AWS. He was classmates of mine at Harvard Business School. But if you met him, you would know he's a wonderfully humble person. He's down to earth, you'll see him at basketball games of the University of Washington. They're sitting there with his kids. I mean, just, that's what you appreciate. To me, it's always sad when someone's successful and it changes them, like egoistically, makes them either, kind of kiss up and then kick down. That type of personality. I mean, there are people like that who can become that way, but I hope that all of us as we have success or whatever quantity of success, we stay humble and humble. Absolutely. Steve Jobs was in a roundabout way, he's an immigrant, right? He was actually adopted as well? His parents were immigrants, he was born here. Right, there you go. So he's second generation. And then of course our last CEO, Paul Moritz, a lot of like, just the circle is it's not hard to find somebody who's a successful immigrant founder or co-founder or CEO these days. It's just, it's a wonderful. So I'm super happy about your story. Obviously we are, I consider this tiny little country of ours much better for your presence in it. Oh, no, we were in this together. I learned a lot, I've been very fortunate to have many friends, mentors and for me in this season, I mean this area, this whole development topic out modernization is like a lot of learning. I'm kind of deep in learning a lot about how these communities work, what are containers and people like you and Joe Beda, Craig McCluckie and James Waters and then several people. James Waters. Michael Carney. These guys are very helpful to me in learning and they're so accessible, like when I need help, I go to them and just ask them questions, basic questions. They'll also give me corrective advice. I was on Jim Kramer and I said something that probably went a little bit far and Joe was very nice, Joe Beda gave me some advice on how the developer community might do that comment and I was like wow, that's really helpful. I'll tell you what it is because it's a good little bit of a confessional moment and I don't want a problem talking about this with your listeners. I was on Jim Kramer and I said you know, this is a comment I made. VMware, you'd expect our birthright to be in containers because we were the ones who invented virtualization and on its surface, okay I made this statement, it comes across as arrogant and it can come across as, and then I was clearly trying to position and claim a leadership spot but that feels a little bit, in fact I got roasted on social media for that comment and Joe picked it up and I hadn't seen it before and he forwarded it to me and said hey, you may want to clarify I know what your heart is because I know you but that's not how the development community thinks about this, nothing in life is a, birthright equals God-given guarantee. I mean you're a girl and you gotta learn to be humble and I said hey listen, I apologize, I'm learning as much how to work with the development community, this is what I meant but I would not have used those words and I certainly won't use those words, I don't consider anything with earn everything, we're very grateful and I appreciate someone like Joe Beta in my life to correct me when I'm wrong and I meant that sincerely, not just because I got roasted, I mean I get roasted on social media for a lot of things and sometimes it's a point of conviction you gotta stand up for it but when you make a mistake, I think it's also good for you to, if I wanted to do it, I'll be the first to say, if I made a mistake, I'll own up to it and fess up and fix it and hopefully it doesn't happen again. Right. And I didn't see any of that, that's interesting so again, the Venn diagram of communities is so big and sometimes there's so many different outlying communities that sometimes there can be a whole thunderstorm over there and you don't even hear it, you don't even know about it, you know? That's interesting. Well, I can understand what you're saying. Totally. I mean, we have, we have infrastructure that's built by isolating software components, you know, we were there a long time ago, I love that. So, but yeah, I can see where might have fell flat a little bit. The thing is, you know, I think that's the thing that's so interesting about you is you actually know what all this is about, right? So you're not just the business MBA. You're actually an engineer. So when you say this.
I wish people could see that you actually know about all this stuff. By the way, you just Hey I'm wearing a hat and a t-shirt. I just want people to know I'm not in a suit right now. Right, yeah. You're wearing a blue hat. And I'm in one of my kid's rooms. You should see that picture when they're much older now. One's 13, and we're doing boys at 10. But yeah, there's definitely, I'm an engineer at heart. I'm a product engineer at heart. I appreciate that. I chose at some point in my life not to code any more actively and do other things that were more into the business side of things. But I enjoy it. That's where the lifeblood of a company is. Core engineers is what really gets me excited. I love sitting in architectural meetings here. Sometimes even if it's going over my head, I love just listening to them, understanding what motivates them, talking to them, trying to figure out how we keep them motivated. And listen, I don't mean to be dismissive of our sales teams. An engineer leaves, it's very hard to replace them. Sometimes a sales rep, yeah, they have relationships, they're important. But an engineer, it's hard to replace them. So I feel like often we've got to really go the extra mile to make sure we keep our developers very engaged, happy. And they have motivations beyond just money. They're probably working on stuff that is important to their learning, to their outcomes, to win, to innovate, make an impact in society in general. I mean, there are a lot of 20 something developers that were hired out of colleges that have a very different motivation than me in the 1990s when I graduated. I wanted to learn how to study, but they have an even bigger, they want to make an impact on the world, community. I didn't have that as a core motive when I graduated. I was like, yeah, let me let me get to get done. I wasn't thinking about social issues and these folks who are millennials and the folks in the 20 something generation coming in have a very broader scope of life and we have to make sure we appeal to them too. I love that. So now I think for any developer today, what we want is to feel like we're able to get value into production. We want to feel like we're making the organization better. So what is the story here? I'm a spring developer. I build an application. I care about the stability of that application production. I'm a cloud native application developer. I care about seeing that in production. What is the story for VMware? What do we tell people is next right after they've gotten the code working on their machines? I think listen, for the spring world, it sort of starts with spring boot and all the things that are relative to what we can do to that spring community that are the tooling, the developer tooling that helps them be successful. We start there. You can't just talk about other stuff. They may not even care about Bitnami. They may not even care about NSX, some of our infrastructure products. If we're not saying. So they're in that community just making sure that we are really serving them well in terms of what they need to make that Java-based community the best we possibly can. And I think, you know, listen, I look back to, I always learn from examples. You know, there were things that WebLogic, and BEA, and WebStreet did in the heyday of that sort of J2E movement. We're good at that, things that we continue to build. I sort of talked about, you know, I don't know if Oracle has, maybe they have, I don't know how well they're serving the community. We want to start by being relevant to the spring community. That's why we retain the conferences. We're going to amplify Ian Andrews, who's driving the marketing effect for developers, the spring conference, and that spring community. Very important. So let's start there. But then I think what I'm really intrigued by is as we build up the Tanzu platform, which has, I described, those three pillars, right? Build, run, manage. What are the intersections? I mean, this part's a little bit more in the build area. There's things we're doing in the run area with Kubernetes and embedding that also closer into the infrastructure of VMware. Our core vSphere product, now VMware Cloud Foundation has elements of Tanzu. I think of it as just sort of taking saplings of Tanzu and putting it into the core. And then the managed portfolio is about Tanzu mission control, managing disparate Kubernetes clusters that could be all over the place, whether it's on the data center, cloud, or on the edge, and the edge, by the way, is a very interesting use case where you might have a Kubernetes cluster on a telco edge or an oil rig or a retail store. And then, I think as we think about that, what I'm really intrigued by is, or looking to learn is what is the relevance of the Spring Community to some of those other efforts we're doing. And then what can we do at VMware to provide infrastructure so that this application development platform and all of what we're doing here is the most stable, the most reliant. It's just the infrastructure that allows the application developer to focus on apps, as opposed to looking down at hardware. The more that they can focus up on what their business users need, how they build features into that capabilities, how do they make sure that that customer service, if it's a customer service app, is better, running faster. And then they don't worry about the underlying, VMware should insulate you from everything that you have to do with the hardware layer by building infrastructure that's, you know, resilient, you know, works on top of any platform. And, you know, virtualized, so to speak. So that's kind of what we call a digital foundation. And then on top of that, these application development build, run, manage platforms, like what we're doing at Tanzu, have to continue to continue to evolve. And then I think over time, it was kind of asking ourselves, should we do more? One of the things we've been thinking through is, you know, the data platform, what does that look like? Now, inside Pivotal, who are assets like, you know, Gemfire and Greenplum, and the world of data is that and also involving, and should we go and build partnerships with the likes of companies like Confluent, that we've already been doing pretty well, or other data companies that we can do more with, because they all need to sit on top of that Tanzu platform. We're working with the ISVs. I'm really keen to get every ISV to work with us in this area, you know, certainly around containers, but maybe in the spring. So at our Tanzu launch last year, we had SAP, we had Oracle, we had Microsoft. These are three of the biggest ISVs working with us. I'm actively talking to all the ISVs. Many of them I know, some of them I used to work at to embrace our effort around Kubernetes and containers. And part of the Kubernetes part of it comes because just like you, Josh, we have some credible founders of them that now work for us, right? Joe and Craig. So you get Joe and Craig in front of people, they can wax eloquent about Kubernetes better than anybody in the world. So I would say to the extent that the spring community wants to intersect with that Kubernetes Venn diagram circle, you've got the Joe's and the Craig's who can help tremendously with that. And we're going to figure this out together. I don't have all the answers. I'm asking a lot of questions of people like you and Ian and Joe and Craig and James Waters and you just name them all. And they're learning from customers as to how they view this. And I will tell you that customer community there's about under a thousand customers of Tanzu, but there's 500,000 customers of VMware who all want to know, Hey, what's the future of containers? Every conversation I had with CIOs today is about that view of developers, developer mindset, microservices, where's containers going. And I think this conversation now becomes highly relevant to the vast majority of VMware customers. So we have a very rich portfolio. When I listened to your answer, it wasn't that there was one recommended path. It's more that there are several common cases out there at different layers of deployment or evolution of an applications lifecycle. And we have solutions there. We are trying to make sure that you're as comfortable as you can be at every stage. It feels like we want you to work on premise and be happy or we want you to be on public cloud infrastructure and be happy. And we've got layered stories for each one of those branches, if you will. Is that true? Yeah, I think listen, and we should be open to, what are some of the other communities adjacent to us care about? This community, Spring Community, probably, you correct me if I'm wrong, Josh, probably has a very good insight into what Java developers care about and that what their needs are. And, you know, there's some adjacent communities, Python, JavaScript, you know, where, what do those communities care about? Maybe it's the same things. Maybe it's different things. I don't know. And we would like to, again, when you say appeal to everybody, we don't want to dilute us focus, right? If you dilute it too much, you're trying to do everything. We certainly have certain pillars of communities right now that we have access to or are in our midst, Spring, Bitnami, Kubernetes. Those are three. And I started the conversation saying, I don't know if those are three non-intersecting circles in the Venn diagram, or it's like, I don't know. But we have access, and they are, those communities, I mean, VMware in the case of Spring, or formal Pivotal, in the case of Bitnami and Kubernetes is VMware. But now all one company has to serve those communities, right? We think it's some total of over five, six million people. And we, through that, we'll figure out, are there new communities we should do, and should we do more? So I think coming out of Spring, Spring One, and the conversations we have with people like you, Josh, and your audience, we want to know what, do we do more inside Spring? And that takes that 3 million developed community, and we feed it, okay? Because you can't just starve it by saying we're gonna do things for other communities. We want to feed it. And that's why we're doing Spring One, in Amplify More. Okay, is there some intersection between Spring One people come to the Spring One conference and VMworld? I don't know. If they're coming to both conferences, should we think about co-locating them or not co-locating them? Those are decisions the marketing team's got to think through. And it's not because we want to, we're not looking at this for, we just want to serve. At the end of the day, we're not looking for more fanfare. I mean, of course we'd like to grow the community in general, because we want to have more people rather than an isolated island. But to the extent that we, in serving them could allow more intersection with the VMworld community, those are some of the decisions that Ian's got to think through. And you know, we love, I mean Josh, you're part of that team. Ian's fantastic. He's got a really good, if I can make a plug for it, the modern apps. We put him in charge of marketing for app modernization. And you know, all of you folks on that team are the real deal. We're looking to you guys to kind of chart for us what the future of our developer plan should be for app modernization. We had him on this show last year. Oh, good. You know, I was lucky enough to get him and Joe Beta and now, Chary on top of that show. All right, put one more here. Ray O'Farrell. So if you have trouble getting them, I'll help you get them. He's a good guy to talk to. And you know, maybe before he talks, I'll give him a copy of this so I can tell him that I made a plug for him. I appreciate it. It was a small miracle that I was able to get you on the show. That was a very difficult time. You're making me sound like I'm the President of the country. I'm not. Hey, I'm honored. I appreciate you saying all those nice words. It's all good. But as you get to know me and your audience, I'm down to earth, I felt like, listen, it's important because, like I said, I started off saying who's the Joe Beta of the Spleen and Spleen community? And you should talk to Among the Blood Men. People say do it to others. I say you want to get to know them. For me, it's as much about learning. And I would really, really be honored for your audience who is listening to this to know that VMware cares about them. This is authentic. It's not just me saying this on the podcast. I mean, you asked Gray the same thing. I mean, the way you know something's authentic is when people say the same thing and they do the same thing. So it's very important to us. We've had certainly that discussion with the Spleen developers who work for us now because they've come from Pivotal inside our company. And we're really taking care of them. They are fairly distributed in different parts of the world. So if you are a VMware employee working on Spleen because you came from Pivotal, I want you know that we care about you. And then of course the folks who are outside VMware in the Spleen developer community, we want to figure out the right way to continue to serve that. Whether it be at Spring One or other programs that we do. And listen, there are many people much smarter than me who know how to do that. I will put hopefully more wood behind the fire to help the seed really flourish. Well I wasn't trying to imply that you weren't humble, more that what happened last time was we had a meeting, you might remember, and you had a customer engagement that suddenly happened. Because you serve and because you care about our customers, made perfect sense that that had to be with the priority. And I love that about you, right? You're very, no, no, you're very, I love that. I love that there's somebody who says look, you know, rather than doing some marketing with Josh, which is like, I wanna make sure our customers are happy and I appreciate that you did that, I love that. I got it. Josh, help me understand your podcast, do people listen to it live or are they taped and listen to it later? Taped and listened to later. Okay, but then I didn't offend, I would always be worried if it was scheduled for a certain time, there were people waiting on the call. No! But if it's live and if it's recorded, yeah it probably was a week or maybe a little longer delayed, but then I don't feel as bad. It was a live event myself. Don't feel bad. You gotta make sure you're there. No, no, don't feel bad at all. What I'm trying to say is I smiled because I was amazed that you were still able to make it and the reason you couldn't make it was one of the best reasons ever, which is customers first. I love that, that's not that I would ever- Customers will always come first, Josh. Absolutely. It's up to our partner communities but if there's a customer escalation, I'll sometimes have to pull a bit, but even those, if I can accommodate change. Listen, for any of you who are customers of ours listening to this, that's authentic too. We have prided ourselves and became one of the highest net promoter scores because we take care of our customers and that's very important because if you can innovate and take care of customers, it's like two jets of a plane. I think we're- And that's a great point about the innovation too. Broadly, the messaging I have gotten from listening to leadership is that Tanzu is super important to the business. Is that fair? Yes. And that there's two sides. One is- Pat laid it out. I reinforced it at my kickoff. Pat laid it out to the whole company at the kickoff. I reinforced it to all the people that go to market organization, all 17,000 of them. Hey, this is priority number one app honestly because it starts with apps. Right. And so the sense was VMware with all of its considerable resources is going to put as much as they need to to make this work. And of course, the expectation of course is that we do make it work, which I think we can do that. Right. So I loved hearing that, that was a very good message. I think that's fair to say out loud, right? Yeah, absolutely. And the way you do it is, I mean, we wanna get every one of the 500,000 customers to look at Tanzu. I mean, again, we have a motive to actually get you to buy it and use it. And hopefully that's valid, but there's some incredible stories. If you look at US Air Force, T-Mobile, some of the other ones in the insurance industry, the retailers who are using this, there's some incredible stories. And Ian and the team did some ROI and TCO studies that showed incredible cost savings from having to just do it with raw development tools. Significant ROI adjusting. I think cost of ownership and agility and risk are gonna be three variables that are very, very important in these COVID times. Given the fact we're going through COVID, we're doing this video conference. Really, first of all, many of your audience or the Crescent Community are affected by this COVID crisis. That's a much bigger part of our focus is the health and safety of our employees and certainly the community. We hope and pray that you are able to get well soon. But then what we're seeing to do is, if we're healthy, is turn our attention to helping customers who are in the crisis and be a digital first responder to the first responders. So a lot of our customers are hospitals, you know, schools, pharmacies, retailers, and then of course banks and life sciences companies who are working in multiple ways to help. We wanna be right there helping them doing this. Are you allowed, you are allowed, but I'm not, I'm not sure if I am, are you allowed to say when VMware asked its employees to either maintain social distancing or- You know, yeah, I mean, I think we followed the CDC and World Health Organization guidelines and the first countries to, I mean, it was either mandated by the government or we took, we often take a higher standard than the government. And we started off in China, South Korea, Southeast Asia, like Singapore. And then it started, as it kind of started to be possibly a pandemic in Europe, I would say late, mid to late February, we began to recommend working from home. And then, you know, just around the time that California said we went to a work from home for everybody. Well before the country was more or less shelter in place. So we've been, you know, kind of shelter in place for more than a month now. Now we were fortunate that we were one of the first companies to invest in Zoom as a company. A lot of people work there, a lot of people, so we had a lot of technology like this. We have capabilities like virtual desktops, were the leader in that area, Horizon, Virtual Desktop Workspace ONE. We have security technologies and app acceleration capabilities from both Carbon Black and SD-WAN, VeloCloud, so there's a portfolio here that customers are finding very relevant. You know, you may have your laptop on which you now have to work from home, but that laptop has to be managed, secured, needs to have virtual desktop, so that it needs to have app acceleration with SD-WAN. And it has to have some video conferencing solutions, whether it's, you know, Zoom or Ring Central or WebX or Teams or Slack or whatever have you. You know, both messaging, video, and phone. So I think we're learning, and we're not in the unified communication space. We partner with those technologies we provide, allow people to do this better, and we take it. And the thing is, as we come out of the crisis, we're going to be equally conservative. If the government says, recommend going from home, we'll say, well, let's wait. And when the government says you must, I don't think any government says that you must work in the office, but if they say they recommend, the recommendation gets stronger, the data starts to show this, we'll do the right thing. I'm starting to now, in public places, wear a mask, not because it's required, but maybe it's just, it's, you know, being respectful to the other person when I go into a store or, you know, I put a tweet out, for those of you who follow on Twitter, my Twitter handle is at Spoonan, I put a tweet out last Friday. My parents live in an apartment, you know, about five miles away, shelter in place. And I called them and said, hey I'm gonna be biking past your apartment, can you just come out of the window and wave hi to me, and I took a picture, a selfie, with me, kind of big face, and them in the background, and I put it out there, and I got caught, and even Jim Cramer and Matt Money sort of retweeted it, because he thought it was pretty funny and cute. Yeah. But then one guy said, hey, you need to be wearing a mask now, you can't just bike right now, I said, okay got it. So my next picture will be of me biking with a mask. And just, you know, it's not because the CDC, or Surgeon General, has made it a mandate. It's not bad. I don't have a fashion problem with that. I feel a little claustrophobic sometimes wearing a mask, but if it's the right thing to do to help someone else feel safe, when we get back to work, we may be at a place where masks become a common practice for a period of time. I really hope, at least, I'm really hopeful for, I was talking to my dad, dad's 80 and my mom's 77. They're in good health. But the last time the world went through, I mean, the middle pandemics, but where there was an incredible loss of lives, as well as a massive, it was World War II. And some people, maybe parents who are alive during that time, that lasted six years. I don't think this will last six years. I mean I don't think that is... 12 months, we don't know. But I hope coming out of this, there's a vaccine. And if the virus is not mutating as fast, the vaccine will work like it did for measles and smallpox. In the meantime, we just have to, I mean, whether you believe in flattening the curve or not, social distancing, a reasonable way to kind of preserve, I mean, I saw a number of studies, including the one from University of Washington yesterday that, hey, you know, had we not gone to social distancing, the number of deaths projected by August would be significant higher, maybe three X it is right now they're projecting. Unfortunately, 80,000 deaths, while we're still a brutally hard number. And for those of you family and friends by it, but they've said if it wasn't for social distancing, it'd be 200,000 or 150,000, three X that number. So I do think it's the right thing to do. We as role models, as leaders, you know, have to in California and every state that you're in. I think, you know, be role models for the rest of the world. Now I see some pictures on social media of people starting to come back together with masks in China. I put that on Twitter saying, I don't know if that's the right thing or not, but the Chinese government is there to defend them and I heard, yeah, last few days there's been no deaths of COVID in China for the first time in, you know, several months. Maybe if that is a signal, there's another side to this. We hopefully are able to get past this in a good way. I hope so too. But I only brought all that up because it's just yet another example of how VMware, just to reinforce what you were saying earlier, VMware cares about its people. And so we were very quick to make sure everybody was, even if there was no actual risk at that point for people, because there was very few cases in the area, even if the number of cases was less, but what we wanted was to focus on making sure people were healthy and less anxious, right? Because nobody wanted to feel like they were gonna be infected. That's correct. So we were very quick to make people happy and safe. Josh, are you still able to hear me? Because I... Yeah. Okay, good. I just wanna make sure my... I just had a sign, I had a little bit of intermittent latency there. While we're speaking about shelter in place, we are debugging the attributes of the internet and whether it's Zoom or whether it's my internet connection or whatever, Abhi, there was a little bit of some instability there. Anyway, I'm glad we're back on. Likewise. And so VMware, I think what has been interesting to me was the extent that VMware has mobilized itself to respond to crises. Yeah. I remember it took a very... It took a... How long have you been at VMware, by the way? I've been at VMware six years, a little over six years. And then bulk of my life prior to that was about, I think, eight years at SAP. Those are two prominent companies I've been at. I've been years before at Apple, Informatica and so on. IBM. Apple got, the division I worked in became part of IBM. That was after I left. Yeah. That's so cool. So you've been at, actually, you went, you said you were at Apple, Microsoft... I started Microsoft for an internship that lasted about nine months. Yeah. And that was between my junior and senior year. I went back, finished my degree, my first major job was Apple, for four years. Went to business school. Came out and worked in the analytics space. Two companies, AlphaBlocks and Informatica. And then spent a small period of time at Symantec. And then the bulk of my life after that has been two companies, SAP and VMware. Nice. Now you are leading the sort of sales organization, right? The go-to-market... Yeah, go-to-market which consists of sales. Service and support. Marketing, alliances and communications. So, what I've just established, I hope, is that VMware takes care of its people and we take care of our customers. What does somebody need to do if they wanna work for you? What if they want to join our organization and be engineers for our customers? What does that look like? Yeah, I think, listen, at the end of the day, we're always looking for smart, capable people. Experience in our domain always helps if you are, you know, I've described sort of these five areas. And by the way, if anybody's interested, I've put out a five-minute video that tells the story of VMware 5-Minute. Go to YouTube and search Sanjay Poon and VMware story, you'll find it, it's a five-minute story. If any of those five domains that are in that story appeal to you, and you have a, you see a website, we post a lot of our rules on our website, please apply for that. We have been rated, very fortunately, to be one of the best companies to work for in the Silicon Valley and actually in many countries of the world in general. So, the culture's fantastic. We're all about innovation, customer satisfaction. Very, very apolitical, I mean, we're just trying to get things done. Listening to ideas, humble hungry, I mean it's, you know, and so yeah, we welcome great talent. If you're in a specific domain that we're really focused on, like right now we're really focused on app modernization, which is the Standard Unit, and security. We're on the hunt for great hire talent. There's a lot of great people that we want to hire, and even if you're one of our competitors, okay! If you say you want to join us, if you're watching this show because you're one of our competitors, we'd love it if you're good, and if you technically want to join VMware, we open door. And we love hiring great talent here, and all of us, you know, kind of try to make this company a very special one. So maybe Josh, on that note, you know, because we're almost to the top of the hour, and I wanna go on to another customer call in a few minutes. I just wanna say thank you to you for your leadership, for your leadership for this community, you and whoever else, as I get to know them, in the Spring community, please allow me to say thank you to them. I look forward to getting to know all of you, you know, through SpringOne or other events where we meet, and there's things, you can contact me at Spoonan on Twitter. How do you spell that? Send me an email, spoonanvmware.com, you know, we try and do it. I mean, I don't, I'm not able to respond to everybody. I try to read all of them, and I try to programmatic respond. But certainly I watch everything on Twitter, it's a fantastic way to stay in touch with community. I wish you all the best. Stay safe, be healthy, and, you know, thanks for all you do to make the world a better place. Thanks for being here. That's S-P-O-O-N-E-N, right? At SPOONAN, that's what it is. Right, and similarly for the email? Yeah. Right, thank you so much, COO of VMware, Sanjay Punnan. I really appreciate you taking the time to answer some of my questions and to shed a light on the sort of next steps for this wonderful opportunity that we have before us. Have a good day, my friend. Take care of it, bye-bye.
